Data Wrangling - Project Capstone 1

After reading the .csv file into python and calling “.head()” to get a sense for the columns and values of the dataset. My initial observation from this step include:
    Most of the columns have string objects, with the exception of the “points” and “price” columns. These have numerical values.
    The column names are well written. Everything is lowercase and columns with multiple letters are joined by an underscore, and not a space.
    The dataset is organized in tidy format, having one subject per column.

Next, I called “.columns” command on the dataframe to check if there are any blank spaces in any of the column headers. There were not.

My next step was to look at “.info()” command to verify each columns dtypes, as well if the data has any missing values.
    Turns out the dtypes are correct. Including the “points” and “price” columns, which have int64 and float64 respectively.
    There are a lot of missing values from almost every column in this dataframe. The only columns that do not contain missing values are “description”, “points”, “title”, and “winery”.

My first step is to tackle the missing values in country column. Given that the “winery” field has all of its values, my first thought is to create a map of {winery:country} value pairs and “map” the missing country values back into the dataframe. This approach worked for 32 missing values. There are still  31 missing country values, out of over 100k. 

Next I moved to drop duplicate rows in the dataframe. There were none to drop.

Next I checked for outliers in the points and price fields. There are outliers in the dataset, however, after closer inspection, the wine bottles that are greater than $1000 seem to be correct and it is not a typo.

Eventually I plan to drop the rows of data with missing price as I’d like to look at the relationship between points and price. However, I also plan on summarizing the data based on number of wineries per country, wineries per continent, etc. I will drop the rows with missing price values after these summary steps.


